++ Debbie Story Generator Discussion

P.S. Wall of text:

You mention "people might see it as a game, not a book" a few times. That doesn't bother me, because I am coming at this from an indie-game perspective, rather than a book-publishing one (the original idea was to make games for both parents and their 4 - 8 y.o. children to play together that are fun for both and feel like spending time together rather than being parked in front of a screen) and my marketing and distribution plans are appstore- rather than publisher-focused. Marketing is problem number one, though.

As far as competition goes, I am aware of:

    eBooks for kids
    interactive scenes for kids (tap here to make the sheep go baaaa)
    simple games
    traditional Choose-Your-Own-Adventure books
    combinations of the above (http://www.techwithkids.com/Review_SR01030S_little-red-riding-hood-by-nosy-crow)
    customizable books (Put Myself in the Story, https://www.iseeme.com/en-us/my-very-own-name-personalized-book.html)

None of these except CYOAs allow the kid to make interesting choices with nontrivial consequences for the story. CYOAs are aimed at older kids; also, readers want to reach the "good ending", which makes them feel more like puzzles than stories, whereas my concept has no wrong choices. So I think I have a new niche. Whether that is a selling point, I don't know -- people seem to be pretty happy with the other products mentioned -- but it is always a choice between having trouble marketing your innovative idea that no one understands and maybe no one wants, or making something tried and true and being crushed by established competition.

Your point about eBooks not being popular for reading aloud is important. Maybe I can position it as an alternative to other screen time rather than an alternative to other reading time, but that probably implies playing up the gamey aspects, which wasn't really my intent.
> You mentioned testing your story on kids. I wouldn’t worry about this unless the kids are going to be doing the buying.
Well, while marketing is problem number one, actually writing a quality book is problem number two, so I would like to test it both with kids and with purchasers.
> recommend you joining the SCBWI (https://www.scbwi.org/) and networking with European members (https://germanyaustria.scbwi.org/) to get some more info re: basics.
Will do, thanks.
